CVSAnalY
========

Description
-----------

The cvsanaly tool extracts information out of source code repository logs and stores it into a database.

About this fork
---------------
This fork of cvsanaly looks to bring the tool up-to-date (such as removing dependencies on SQLite by changing the base requirement to at least Python 2.5), as well as add some extra functionality (such as storing the code of revisions into tables). It is being developed by the [Software Introspection Lab](http://users.soe.ucsc.edu/~ejw) at the [University of California, Santa Cruz](http://www.ucsc.edu). It is **not an official fork**, and does not guarantee that it will maintain parity with the original cvsanaly2. 

All releases to the master branch should be stable for use.

Differences to original
-----------------------
* Added an extension called Content, which will save the content of source files at each revision (this takes a long time).
* Added an extension called Hunks, which will parse diffs and find the start/end lines of changes, changes with just removed lines are ignored (this takes a *really long time* unless using git).
* Updated to use `sqlite3`, bundled with Python 2.5+
* Fixed Unicode handling of git repositories
* Installable, with required repositoryhandler dependency, via [pip](http://pip.openplans.org/), rather than requiring checking out multiple projects from source and performing manual installation.


Requirements
------------

CVSAnalY has the following dependencies:

* Python 2.5 or higher
* RepositoryHandler (can be installed by `pip` requirements, if you know how to use that. More instructions forthcoming. This needs to be placed in your [PYTHONPATH][pp].)

    `git clone https://github.com/SoftwareIntrospectionLab/repositoryhandler.git`
* Guilty (If you need to run Blame or HunkBlame extensions, also needs to be discoverable in the [PYTHONPATH][pp])

	`git clone http://git.libresoft.es/guilty`
* CVS (optional, for CVS support)
* Subversion (optional, for SVN support)
* Git (optional, for Git support. Must be >= 1.7.1 for Patches/Hunks extensions to work)
* Python MySQLDb (optional, but of course required if you wish to actually use MySQL as your database engine!)

Install
-------

You don't need to do anything if you are happy using CVSAnalY from the path you downloaded it to. This is easiest if you intend on staying up-to-date with our releases.

If you want to install it to a system location, you can do this by running the `setup.py` script:

    python setup.py install

If you do this, you'll need to remember to run this every time you get a new release.

If you don't have root privledges, you can just add CVSAnalY to your $PATH (cvsanalydir is the directory
where CVSAnalY is installed):

    export PATH=$PATH:cvsanalydir

CVSAnalY needs RepositoryHandler. If it is not installed in the usual
path for Python packages, PKG\_CONFIG\_PATH should include the directory
where it is installed (repohandlerdir is the path where RepositoryHandler
is installed):

    export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=$PKG_CONFIG_PATH:repohandlerdir

You are ready to use cvsanaly2!

Running cvsanaly2
-----------------

For the impatient: just checkout (from svn or cvs) to obtain a local
version of your repository, and then run cvsanaly2:

    cd project/
    ~/project$ cvsanaly2 

More options, and a more detailed info about the options, can be
learnt by running `cvsanaly2 --help`

If you're having problems
-------------------------
### Packet bigger than max_allowed_packet
Sometimes, a lot of data can pass between CVSAnalY and MySQL, and packet limits are set too small.

Follow the instructions [here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/93128/mysql-got-a-packet-bigger-than-max-allowed-packet-bytes/104176#104176).

### UnicodeEncodeError: 'ascii' codec can't encode character
This happens because Python is trying to print out a Unicode string to a terminal that has told Python it only supports ASCII. You can co-erce Python into printing Unicode by setting up your [sitecustomize.py](http://diveintopython.org/xml_processing/unicode.html). 

How to get the original CVSAnalY2
---------------------------------

	git clone http://git.libresoft.es/cvsanaly
    git clone git://git.libresoft.es/git/cvsanaly	

Credits
-------

CVSAnalY is developed by the GSyC/LibreSoft group at the
Universidad Rey Juan Carlos in Móstoles, near Madrid (Spain). It is
part of a wider research on libre software engineering, aimed to gain
knowledge on how libre software is developed and maintained.

More information
----------------

CVSAnalY: <https://forge.morfeo-project.org/projects/libresoft-tools/>

The GSyC/LibreSoft group: <http://libresoft.es>

Fork authors
------------
* Chris Lewis, <cflewis@soe.ucsc.edu>
* Zhongpeng Lin
* Xiaoyan Zhu
* Caitlin Sadowski
* Jim Whitehead (advisor), <ejw@soe.ucsc.edu>


Main authors of CVSAnalY
------------------------
* Carlos Garcia Campos, <carlosgc@gsyc.es>

Contributors
------------

* Gregorio Robles, <grex@gsyc.escet.urjc.es>
* Alvaro Navarro, <anavarro@gsyc.escet.urjc.es>
* Jesus M. Gonzalez-Barahona, <jgb@gsyc.escet.urjc.es>
* Israel Herraiz, <herraiz@gsyc.escet.urjc.es>
* Juan Jose Amor, <jjamor@gsyc.escet.urjc.es>
* Martin Michlmayr, <tbm@debian.org>
* Alvaro del Castillo, <acs@barrapunto.com>
* Santiago Duenas, <sduenas@libresoft.es>

[pp]: http://docs.python.org/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONPATH

